I am Lyudmila Pavlichenko. Born
in 1916 in Bila Tserkva, Ukraine.
I am a Soviet sniper in the Red Army during World
War II, who was credited with 309 deaths, making
me the most successful female sniper in recorded
history. I served in the Red Army during the siege
of Odesa and the siege of Sevastopol, during the
early stages of the fighting on the Eastern Front.
My family moved to Kyiv when I was aged 14. As
a child, I was a self-described tomboy fiercely
competitive at athletic activities. In Kyiv,
I joined a shooting club, developed into an
amateur sharpshooter, and earned the Voroshilov
Sharpshooter badge and a marksman certificate.
I enrolled at Kyiv University in 1937,
where I studied history and intended
to be a scholar and teacher. I competed on
the university's track team as a sprinter.
I was also enrolled in a military-style
sniping school for six months by the Red Army.
In June 1941, I was aged 24 in my fourth year
studying history at Kyiv University when Nazi
Germany began its invasion of the Soviet
Union. After many requests to join the army,
my enrollment was accepted as a sniper. A
fallen comrade once handed me his rifle.
I then shot my first two enemies
and proved myself to my comrades.
I called that day the "baptism of fire" because
that was when I officially became a sniper.
I fought during the siege of Odesa and Sevastopol
climbing the ranks to be Lieutenant Pavlichenko.
My total of confirmed kills during World War
II was 309, including 36 Axis snipers. My
high kill count gave me the nickname "Lady
Death." I also trained snipers for combat
duty until the end of the war and become
a senior researcher for the Soviet Navy.
I toured the United States, Canada, and the
United Kingdom to share my willingness to
fight for freedom. I died of a stroke at the
age of 58 but I lived my life to the limit,
defending my people’s life
to live in dignity and honor.